Durban - The decision by an employer to suspend a Durban man who wrote on Facebook that Indians were low-class rubbish with no morals has been seen by race experts as a step in the right direction.Mount Edgecombe-based Interflex Conveyor Belting confirmed that it had suspended Will MacGibbon for social media posts he made over the weekend which insulted Hindus celebrating Diwali.A letter by law firm Lister and Co on behalf of the company, issued on November 1, said MacGibbon s immediate suspension would be followed by a swift investigation into the matter.The company distanced itself from his comments, saying a subsequent disciplinary process could take place. It goes without saying that the allegations are seen in an extremely serious light, it added.MacGibbon s role, according to his LinkedIn page, was as chairman of the company.When contacted by The Mercury, Interflex declined to comment further on Thursday.MacGibbon s Facebook account has been deactivated.The chairman of the group Mandela Rhodes Community, Suntosh Pillay, said consequences of this kind needed to be dealt with more often in institutions like businesses. Obviously business must take a stand because racism is so ingrained, so people need to suffer material consequences like job losses, money losses - losses of reputation. It s better to go the stick route for now because people won t change overnight, he said.Pillay said businesses that did not punish employees for acts of racism should be boycotted. We need to get to the point where it (racism) costs businesses - they will only start changing once they start losing their bottom line. Brett Purdon, a Durban attorney specialising in labour law, said such outbursts on social media could bring an employer into &shy;disrepute. It is damaging to the business and can have many consequences. The company s reputation could be diminished. It s quite a complex field, he said.Crispin Hemson, director of the International Centre of Nonviolence, based at Durban University of Technology s ML Sultan campus, said: It s good that they (the company) have taken responsibility when their employee did something that is socially dangerous. It s good that they didn t say it s only him - they took responsibility and distanced themselves. But Hemson warned that merely punishing an individual could lead to ignoring root causes of poor race relations. We get into the idea that there is a minority of bad people and ignore social norms that create these people, and so a person getting punished won t change much of the attitudes that are deep-seated. Added Pillay: We still have very old-fashioned racism in South Africa, but we only really taken notice when it explodes and is in the public eye. We need to understand that racism is implicit and it s everywhere, and we need to be able to help the everyday person. The President of the South African Hindu Maha Sabha, Ashwin Trikamjee, was pleased with the company s action. The sooner other employers follow this example, the better. People have got to be punished where it hurts them most. There is no place in society for people who make racist comments and think they can get away with it. On Wednesday, the ANC and South African Hindu Maha Sabha laid charges of crimen injuria at Durban Central Police Station against MacGibbon and Dawie Kriel, another Durban man who had made similar offensive comments on Facebook.DA provincial chairman Haniff Hoosen laid charges against Kriel at Brighton Beach Police Station.People on social media were outraged at the weekend after screenshots of the two men s comments surfaced on Facebook.MacGibbon and Kriel made the comments because of noisy fireworks that were set off in celebration of Diwali.MacGibbon wrote on Facebook that Indians were sent to South Africa to cut cane and they were all low-class rubbish with no morals. Kriel posted that he could strangle you morons (Indians) with my bare hands and derive great pleasure in watching your face turn blue and your tongue pop out .The Mercury