Durban - More than 5 000 councillors country-wide who did not return to office after the August municipal election are anxiously awaiting their share of the R300-million once-off gratuity promised to them by the local government minister.The predicament was confirmed by SA Local Government Association (Salga) executives on the sidelines of a news media briefing in Durban on Tuesday. KwaZulu-Natal executive officer Sabelo Gwala said Salga was aware of the delays in the payments but was addressing the matter with the department of local government. The briefing was in the wake of the Salga s national executive committee meeting in Durban before its national conference in Johannesburg next week. Salga has done its part in submitting documents. We ve heard from the local government ministry that they needed approval from the commission of public service remuneration. Once they achieve that, they will then be executing payments, Gwala said. The Department of Local Government and Traditional Affairs in August set aside R300 million to be paid to councillors who were not re-elected.It is understood that the late submission of the documents had also contributed to the late payment. The commission, for instance said it would be paying based on a structured salary and not total remuneration (including benefits). The initial proposal from the minister was that it would be paid based on total remuneration, he said. The local government department had since published the recommendations and that payment would be made, he said, although he was non-committal as to when exactly this would happen. It is understood that 60% of the councillors from the previous term had not returned after the local government election. Approached for comment, the Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs said the former councillors would be paid before Christmas. The once-off payment would go to former councillors who had served for more than two years. In the case of those who did not serve a full term in the various councils, they will still receive a taxable once-off pro-rata gratuity, the department said. About 700 councillors had not submitted their forms to the department. Based on the projections using the 2011 payments, National Treasury unveiled an amount of R309m to the Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs to make payment to all eligible non-returning councillors after the local government elections, it said. KwaZulu-Natal DA leader Zwakele Mncwango said it was unfair and irresponsible of the government to announce the gratuity before it got its house in order . When this announcement was made, it was under the impression that the councillors would be paid in August, while their pension payouts were being processed. It was a good gesture, but now, some of these guys are in financial ruin because of the delays, he said. Former eThekwini NFP councillor Bongiwe Mtshali, one of the councillors who did not return after the August three election, confirmed she had not received the gratuity. She said it was unclear when she would receive the money. Former eThekwini Municipality speaker Logie Naidoo, who is also affected, said he felt the process was moving faster than it did in 2011. Then, he said, the gratuity was paid over 12 months.The Star