Durban - The residents association for Blythedale Beach on the KwaZulu-Natal North Coast said it is fed up with unruly parties and general debauchery over the festive season.This in the wake of what was described as absolute mayhem on Friday and at the weekend when thousands of revellers descended on a public car park near the beach.A man, who was among the beach-goers, died after he was stabbed early on Saturday morning. Paramedics were unable to reach him because of an unruly crowd of people who threatened them.Loud partying continued through the night and locals described the situation as total debauchery , rife with drunkenness, the use of illicit drugs and sex.In aerial photographs taken the next morning, the streets were gridlocked with minibus taxis and a number of party-goers appeared to have passed out on the side of the road, in between Styrofoam food containers and glass bottles.The Blythedale Beach Residents and Ratepayers Association spokesperson, who did not want to be named for fear of reprisals, on Monday told The Mercury that what happened at the beach at the weekend occurred every year. In 2014, the entire village was under siege. We couldn t leave our homes. The spokesperson said that with the annual Blythedale Beach Festival scheduled for December 26 and 27, he feared the worst was still to come.On Friday night, the partying began at around 9:30pm after law enforcement officials went off shift, he said. People come here because they know there is no law enforcement late at night in Blythedale Beach, a resident said.Security was beefed up after Friday, but the partying continued unabated last night when there was no law enforcement in sight . In the event of law enforcement agencies withdrawing, we will engage private security to lock down our village, the resident added.Questioned about the legal ramifications of closing off the area, he said the community needed to protect itself.Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala on Monday told The Mercury that a total of 21 people were arrested for drunk driving and six people for drinking in public in the KwaDukuza Municipality, into which Blythedale Beach falls. Blythedale Beach residents say they are unhappy with dozens of visitors to the beach, who party until the early hours during the festive season. Picture: The Mercury No arrests had been made in connection with the stabbing.Asked what measures police were taking to address public drinking and the contravention of these kinds of by-laws, Gwala said more police had since been deployed to the beach and the greater KwaDukuza area to curb all criminal-related incidents during the festive season.She also said a number of newly recruited police constables had been deployed around the province.The spokesperson for the KwaDukuza Municipality, Lindiwe Mbonambi, said on Monday with regards to Blythedale Beach, that a detailed operational plan had been developed in consultation with the association.Mbonambi said Blythedale Beach attracted a number of people from outside the local municipal area. We observed that visitors to this beach come from within the greater Ilembe area, as there is a lack of swimming beaches within the district. She said the municipality increased the number of traffic officers, tourists monitors, points persons and security staff deployed. We have identified specific parking areas for light motor vehicle and public transport. This will aid in reducing traffic congestion within the Blythedale village. Mbonambi said there would be ongoing vehicle check points concentrating on unroadworthy vehicles, driver compliance and restricting the transportation and consumption of alcohol in public areas.She also said the KwaDukuza lifeguards were fully equipped to deal with rescue situations and had been trained as law enforcement officers to assist on the foreshore. We have employed additional seasonal lifeguards to capacitate the Marine Safety Unit. Mbonambi said that due to a lack of manpower, the municipality was unable to implement a 24-hour policing service, but officers had been deployed to work between 10pm and 6am on specific days.* Police are appealing to anyone with information about Friday night s stabbing to contact the local police or Crime Stop at 08600 10111.* For emergencies relating to Marine Safety, Fire &amp; Rescue and Traffic in KwaDukuza, please call 032 437 5570/060 714 3764.The Mercury