Pretoria - Independent Police Investigative Directorate head Robert McBride and forensic consultant Paul O Sullivan have dismissed allegations of trying to overthrow President Jacob Zuma and assassinate Hawks head Berning Ntlemeza. The pair also challenged Gauteng Hawks chief Prince Mokotedi to undergo a lie detector test. This comes after Mokotedi on Tuesday lodged a litany of charges against O Sullivan, McBride, former Gauteng Hawks boss Shadrack Sibiya and policewoman Captain Candice Coetzee.The four face charges of high treason, espionage, conspiracy to commit murder, corruption, intimidation and harassment, defeating the ends of justice, tax evasion and breach of immigration laws.In an affidavit submitted to the Bedfordview police station, Mokotedi said he laid the charges after being informed by an unnamed source.The four had met earlier this month allegedly at the former house of underworld criminal Radovan Krejcir in Bedfordview. O Sullivan denied owning the house or living there. Mokotedi alleges that O Sullivan now lives in the house through intricate company shareholding . The four were all in attendance as were representatives from AfriForum and the DA, Mokotedi said. They had a braai and held discussions where they identified certain people as targets for vexatious criminal investigations and shaming in the media , he said in his affidavit.The alleged conspirators targeted acting police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane, Ntlemeza, Mokotedi, National Director of Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams and state security agency head Arthur Fraser. The motive is that they are close to or are supporters of President Jacob Zuma.&quot; He alleges it was agreed that O Sullivan collect information and dig dirt that would implicate the five senior government officials. The group held discussions on matters Ipid is investigating against Phahlane and Ntlemeza, and those cases must be finalised within the next month and be submitted to the NPA. The group agreed that should the NPA decline to prosecute, AfriForum and the DA should pursue private prosecution.Coetzee is accused of illegally leaking classified information to O Sullivan. She is on suspension for the said transgression. Another shock allegation is that O Sullivan had already collected damaging evidence against President Zuma s son Duduzane to mobilise the community to pressurise the president to quit. The group, he adds, planned to mobilise for an Arab Spring type of revolt.The source s claims to Mokotedi are corroborated by an intelligence report submitted in April of a meeting held by the four in Sandton in March. Also at that meeting were Zimbabwean intelligence agency and Serbian nationals. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the strategy of dealing with Ntlemeza, Mokotedi and witnesses on the rendition case. Three of the four on Tuesday shrugged off the allegations, with Sibiya threatening legal action to clear his name. McBride said there was nothing untoward about his meetings with O Sullivan as he had previously provided credible information to the Ipid. McBride said the allegation was another desperate attempt to falsely implicate him, as he had become aware of hare-brained schemes to oust him. Behind this, McBride and O Sullivan insisted, was Police Minister Nathi Nhleko, who has been at loggerheads with McBride throughout his tenure. He said the targeted had done more to uphold the rule of law than the thugs who abuse state power for an ulterior purpose . O Sullivan said the charges were false allegations based on hearsay and he and McBride challenged Mokotedi to a polygraph test, adding that he was incompetent, dishonest and a criminal who belongs in jail . Sibiya s lawyer branded the charges absolute nonsense .Pretoria News