Durban Thousands are expected to see in the New Year in Durban and the city is ready for them.The eThekwini Municipality said in a statement on Thursday that it expected the number of visitors to peak during this period and measures had been put in place to ensure visitors would have a memorable experience. To avoid traffic congestion, road closures around the beachfront precinct will be effected from December 31 to January 2. Only motorists with beach permits will be allowed access beyond the boom gates. Mayor Zandile Gumede said the city had seen a very positive turnout of visitors at all the city s establishments. Our hotel occupancy rate has been at an average of 95%, but we are expecting this number to rise to 100% capacity during the New Year celebration period, she said.The overall economic activity around this festive season is expected to generate an estimated R2.2 billion in direct spend, making a GDP contribution of R3.8billion to the economy of the city. Furthermore, the economic activity over this festive season is expected to sustain about 8 700 jobs, said Gumede.Durban Tourism has also noted an increase in the interest and number of visitors in townships. The Inanda Heritage Route had shown a significant growth in terms of international visitor arrivals.A number of New Year s parties and events are lined up in the city for this weekend, including the popular FACT Durban Rocks at People s Park on December 31.Operations manager for this event, Chad White, told The Mercury that it had capacity for 18000 people. When we held the event in July, it was sold-out. As of today, we have only 50 VIP passes left and just a few general entry tickets. White said they had employed 240 security guards to help keep incidents to a minimum and would receive assistance from the SAPS and the metro to help them. We have a good record in terms of things running smoothly and we want to keep it that way. He said they had purchased alcohol to the value of more than R1 million. We try to make sure that we are prepared, even if it means over-preparing. We have purchased 750 cases of beer and 650 cases of cider. We also have a selection of whiskies and champagne. The line-up includes Black Coffee, AKA and Cassper Nyovest, and celebrities Pearl Modiadie and Lunga Shabalala are expected to attend.Other events tomorrow include The Grand Finale at GrowthPoint Kings Park Stadium; the 8th Annual Gospel All Stars at Centrum Site; the first annual KwaMakhutha New Year s Eve Music Festival at Umkhumbi Sports Ground; and a New Year s Eve Musical Pyro display at the Sundeck Bar at Suncoast Casino.On January 1, patrons will be entertained at the New Year s Day Extravaganza at Umnini Dam and Woz eDurban at Botanic Gardens.The Mercury