Durban - Future doctors, accountants and scientists were among KwaZulu-Natal s top pupils featured on the Independent Examinations Board s outstanding achievement list.The pupils scored within the top 5% of IEB matriculants, nationwide, in six or more subjects, and scored 80% or more for life orientation. But while the next few days are sure to be filled with celebrations, the coming years look set to involve a lot of hard work for these aspirational A students. Among them was Durban Girls College s Glenda Watt, who told The Mercury on Thursday that she planned to study medicine at UCT next year. Glenda was happy and slightly relieved that she had done well and said her matric year had been a busy one, as she had captained the badminton and cross country teams as well as taking part in a student-run talent show. Her secret to success had been good time management, she said.Check out our special Matric Results page hereJoining Glenda on the outstanding achievement list were her classmates Chanelle Pretorius, Mishka Ramlagan and Inessa Rajah. Chanelle was also off to UCT to study medicine next year while Mishka was planning for a BCom Accounting at the University of KwaZulu-Natal. It s something I ve been inspired to do my whole life. My dad s a chartered accountant, Mishka said.Chanelle described matric as stressful. Whoever said Grade 11 was harder - I have no idea what they were thinking. But, she said, it was a lot of fun too. She said studying medicine had always been her dream. St Mary s DSG, Kloof, pupils Lara Holtes, Ruth Purcell, Karien Rossouw and Sarah Camp also featured on the list. It s been one heck of a year. I was deputy head girl, I danced; I had a very busy year, said Lara, who will study towards a BSc in genetics and biochemistry at UCT next year, while Ruth planned on studying medicine at UCT. Ruth missed some school this year. So I was very stressed - playing catch up - and it was quite hectic, she said. She said she spent many nights staying up late and she was relieved her hard work had paid off. Karien, who will be studying medicine at the University of Pretoria next year, said she worked hard and her social life had had to take a back seat. Emma Perkins, from Ashton International College, Ballito, Jason Galt, from Thomas More College, Kloof, and Uzayr Jadwat, from the city s Clifton College, also made it on to the prestigious list. Uzayr said matric had been quite challenging but it felt brilliant to hear that he had done well.He will study actuarial science at UCT next year.The highlight of Emma s year had been her matric dance. It was so much fun to get a break from school and spend time with friends, she said. Emma plans on following in her older sister s footsteps by studying accounting at the University of Stellenbosch next year. Jason, who was named Dux this year, thanked his family for their support and said he had never been placed first in the grade until this year. Jason will be studying medicine at UCT next year. Last, but by no means least, Sana Hashmi, from Grantleigh, in Richards Bay, and Andrea Tonelli, from Hilton College, in the Midlands, also made the cut on the board s outstanding achievement list this year.The Mercury