Durban - eThekwini city manager S bu Sithole will vacate his office when his five-year contract expires on December 31.This was the view of city insiders after the city advertised the renewable five-year post at the weekend. This was after a decision taken by councillors in a behind-closed-doors meeting last week.The Mercury understands that there are already three candidates in the running for the R2.6 million-a-year post (R3.1 million including benefits). Although Sithole can still apply and be reappointed to the lucrative post, it is understood this is unlikely. This has been confirmed by high-ranking city officials.The speculation gives further credence to claims that Sithole s authority has been undermined by his political principals since July this year. That was a month before the August 3 elections, and as former mayor James Nxumalo was clearing his office for his nemesis and successor Zandile Gumede to take the reins.Sithole was appointed by Nxumalo s executive in January 2012. He replaced Michael Sutcliffe, who had served two terms under the mayorship of Obed Mlaba.The city received its first clean audit in the 2014/15 financial year under Sithole s management. It is, however, understood that Sithole is not in favour with new mayor, Zandile Gumede, and the ANC.A former eThekwini audit committee chairman and an former city internal risk and audit head were understood to be in the running for the post. A current city head, with massive ANC backing, was also being tipped to succeed Sithole.Another source said: If they wanted to retain him, why would they advertise the job? They could have just renewed the contract. It is obvious he is on his way out. A senior ANC politician, who asked not to be identified, said the party does not want him to return . But if his contract is up, it will be advertised and he - or anyone else who qualifies - can apply for the job, he said.In the advert, the city said it was seeking suitably qualified candidates to apply for the five-year performance-based fixed contract. Applicants should hold an appropriate Bachelor Degree in Public Admin/Political Science or equivalent and must have a minimum of five years experience in a senior management capacity in the public sector.City spokeswoman Tozi Mthethwa said a section 57 contract was not a permanent post and it was standard procedure that when such a contract was due to expire the municipality must have a plan to fill the post. The procedure included advertising the post, shortlisting and interviewing candidates.The Mercury unsuccessfully tried to get comment from Sithole. He previously referred queries about his future to the mayoral parlour.City insiders, who cannot be identified for fear of reprisal, said Sithole s authority was hamstrung by an unofficial moratorium . Sithole has not signed off on any appointment since July - no matter the level. This is creating backlogs, it s affecting service delivery, the source said. The human resources departments and the other departments were advertising the jobs and conducting interviews, but Sithole was not authorising any of the appointments. According to a senior official this was affecting thousands of vacancies: As a result, departments are demanding answers from HR. Responding to reports of a moratorium, Mthethwa did not confirm or deny the claims but said the municipality was doing a skills audit to ensure that the skills set and competency level of all employees are properly matched with their job descriptions . sihle.manda@inl.co.zaThe Mercury